- [Instructor] Log aggregation is one of those areas
in the stream data platform that we first visit.
When talking about log aggregation,
there are really two separate parts of the process.
Most diagrams only focus on the log aggregation activities
of the message broker itself.
And indeed, it can aggregate logs from various systems,
usually, however, in a raw format.
Transformations, however, are not traditionally done
in the stream data platform itself.
It is usually preferred to keep all logs
in the original format
so as to not lose context or metadata from the log itself.
As such, they become disjointed.
Readability of log messages directly impacts
the utilization of them.
If logs are disjointed
and a human has to piece them together,
points will be lost.
The log aggregation that I'm mostly referring to
is in a consumption engine.
The log messages are transformed into a common format
and shipped to a system designed to provide insight
and readability into the log messages.
A tool like Elastic ELK Stack
is a great place for the outcomes of these messages.
While they can handle real-time log aggregation,
a system designed with a bigger swath of log messages
out of a stream data platform
that has been transformed during shipping
is a powerful operational tool.
Operations can use the data in the aggregator system
to visualize the stream of events that brought about
the need for the operational insight.
Internal log aggregation and processing
are worth mentioning here
because they can be as useful as well
for some of the same uses
that an external log aggregator can be used for.
They're designed to aggregate logs and make decisions
based on the presence or absence of data.
Often, they're used to trigger API calls
to perform some action through synchronous events.
They can also be used to trigger alerts when needed.
Of course, you can do all of this in the external system.
They can also create events through asynchronous messaging.
These events can trigger various functions
throughout the system.
In my opinion, the visualization of log aggregators
is critical to its usefulness.
Visualization improves the human readability of log messages
because, often, we have a message and metadata about it.
The ability to filter on metadata
and only visualize the log message
becomes a huge improvement for human comprehension.
In addition, metadata can help you understand
the real state that the system was in
when the log was produced.
Operations can leverage the visualization of logs
when troubleshooting as well as inspecting system health.
The operational value of visualizations
of aggregated logs cannot be underestimated.
Logs can also be useful in debugging,
especially in a microservices architecture.
The calls are disjointed by their very nature,
and by aggregating the logs,
you get a better picture of the system as a whole.
Debugging multiple remote processes
is hard to say the least,
but logs can help tremendously in producing a simpler path
so that you can target the impacted system
instead of the full call stack.
Visualization just aids in the analysis of logs.
Log visualizations can be tremendously powerful
during refactoring exercises.
They can be a first point of contact,
especially in lower environments
to determining if there are negative impacts
of the refactoring that your testing didn't account for.
I mention this because important, in my opinion,
to build stream data platforms
that read from all environments,
not just production.